in this video I'd like to start talking
about how to multiply together two
matrices we'll start with a special case
of that of matrix vector multiplication
of multiplying a matrix together with a
vector let's start with an example
here's a matrix and here's a vector and
let's say we want to multiply together
this matrix with this vector what's the
result let me just work through this
example and then we can step back and
look at just what the steps were it
turns out the result of this
multiplication process is going to be
itself a vector and I'm going to work
with this first the later we'll come
back and see you know just what I did
here to get the first element of this
vector I'm going to take these two
numbers and multiply them with the first
row of the matrix and add up the
corresponding numbers and I take one
multiplied by one and take three and
multiply by five and that's why there's
one plus 15 so that gives me 16 and I
write 16 here then for the second row
second element I'm going to take the
second row and multiply by this vector
so I have 4 times 1 plus 0 times 5 which
is equal to 4 so I get a 4 there and
finally for the last one I have 2 1
times 1 5 7 2 by 1 plus 1 by 5 which is
equal to 7 and so I get a 7 over there
ok and it turns out that the results of
multiplying a that's a 3 by 2 matrix by
a 2 by 1 matrix there's also just a two
dimensional vector the result of this is
going to be a 3 by 1 matrix so that's
why I get a 3 by 1 matrix
in other words a 3x1 matrix is just a
three-dimensional vector so I realized
that I did that pretty quickly and
you're pretty not sure you can repeat
this process yourself but let's look in
more detail at was just at what just
happened and what this process of
multiplying a matrix by a vector looks
like here are the details of how to
multiply a matrix by a vector let's say
I have a matrix a and I want to multiply
that by a vector X the result is going
to be you know some vector Y so the
matrix a here is an M by n dimensional
matrix so M rows and n columns and I'm
going to multiply that by a n by 1
matrix so in other words line n
dimensional vector it turns out this n
here has to match this n here in other
words the number of columns in this
matrix so the number of columns you have
to be n columns number of columns here
has to match the number of rows here
where has to match the dimension of this
vector and the result of this product is
going to be an M dimensional vector Y ok
so in other words the number of rows
here M is going to be equal to you know
the number of rows in this matrix a so
how do you actually compute this vector
Y well it turns out to compute this
vector Y the process is to get Y I
multiply a row with the elements of the
vector X and add them up so here's what
I mean in order to get the first element
of Y you that first number whether that
turns out to me we're going to take the
first row of the matrix a and multiply
them one at a time with the elements of
this vector X so we'll take this first
number multiplied by this verse number
then take the second number multiplied
by the second number take this third
number whatever
multiply the third number and so on
until we get to the end and I'm going to
add up the results of these products and
the result of hang that up is going to
give us this first element of Y then
when we want to get the second element
of Y they say this element the way we do
that is we take the second row of a and
we repeat the whole thing is we take the
second row of a and multiply
element-wise with the elements of X and
add up the results of the products and
that would give me the second element of
Y and keep going to get and then I'm
going to take the third row of a
multiply element wise you know with the
vector X some of the results and then I
get the third element and so on until I
get down to the last row so okay
so that's the procedure let's do one
more example here's the example so let's
look at the dimensions right here this
is a three by four dimensional matrix
this is a four dimensional vector or a 4
by 1 matrix and so the result of this
the result of this product is going to
be a three dimensional vector I'm going
to write a vector with room for three
elements let's do the let's carry out
the products so for the first element
I'm going to take these phone numbers
and multiply them with the vector X so I
have 1 times 1 plus 2 times 3 plus 1
times 2 plus 5 times 1 which is equal to
s1 plus 6 plus 2 plus 6 which gives me
14 and then for the second element I'm
going to take this row now and multiply
it with this vector as I start with 0
one plus three right so 0 times 1 plus 3
times 3 plus 0 times 2 plus 4 times 1
which is equal to let's see that's 9
plus 4 just 13 and finally for the last
element I'm going to take this last row
so I have a minus 1 times 1 yup - 2 or
radians plus negative 2 I guess times 3
plus 0 times 2 plus 0 times 1 and so
that's going to be minus 1 minus 6 is
negative 7 so that's negative 7
ok so my final answer is this vector 14
just write to that without the colors 14
13 negative 7 and as promised the result
here is a three by one matrix so that's
how you multiply a matrix and a vector I
know that a lot just happened on the
slide so if you're not quite sure where
all these numbers when you know feel
free to pause the video and so take a
slow careful look at this big
calculation that we just did try to make
sure that you understand the steps of
what just happened to get us these
numbers 14 13 7
finally let me show you a neat trick
let's say we have a set of four houses
so four houses with four sizes like
these and let's say I have a hypothesis
for predicting what is the price of a
house and let's say I want to compute
you know H of X for each of my four
houses here it turns out there's a neat
way of posing this they're applying this
hypothesis that all of my houses at the
same time it's the teens turns out
there's a neat way to poses as a matrix
vector multiplication so here's how I'm
going to do it I'm going to construct
the matrix as follows my matrix is going
to be 1 1 1 1 times and I want to write
down you know the sizes of my four
houses here and I'm going to construct a
vector as well and my vector is going to
be this vector of two elements that's
here these are minus 40 and 0.25 that's
these two coefficients theta 0 and theta
1 and what I'm going to do is take this
matrix and that vector and multiply them
together at times is this multiplication
symbol so what I get well this is a 4 by
2 matrix this is a 2 by 1 matrix so the
outcome is going to be a 4 by 1 vector
right so let me oh so this is going to
be a 4 by 1 matrix is the outcome or 4/1
really a 4 dimensional vector
so let me write in one of my 4 elements
we have 4 real numbers here now it turns
out the first element of this result
right the way I'm going to get that is
I'm going to take this and multiply it
by this vector and so this is going to
be minus 40 times 1
plus 0.25 times 2 1 0 4 by the way on
the earlier slides I was writing 1 times
minus 40 and 2 104 times 0.25 right but
the order doesn't matter
minus 40 times 1 that's the same as 1
times minus 40 and this first element of
course is H applied to to 104 so it's
really the predicted price of my first
house well how about the second element
hope you can see where I'm going to get
the second element right I'm going to
take this and multiply it by my vector
and so that's going to be minus 40 times
1 plus 0.25 times 1 for 1 6 and so this
is going to be H of 1 4 1 6 right and so
on for the 3rd and DM and so on for the
3rd and the 4th elements of this 4 by 1
vector and just be clear right this
thing here this thing here did I just
drew the green box around that's a real
number ok that's a single real number
and this thing here did I drew the
magenta box around the purple magenta
color box around that's a real number
right and so this thing on the right is
this thing on the right overall this is
a 4 by 1 dimensional matrix with a 4
dimensional vector and the neat thing
about this is that when you're actually
implementing this in software so when
you have four houses and when you want
to use your hypothesis to predict the
prices within the price why of all of
these four houses what this means is
that you know you can you can write this
in one line of code when we talk about
octave and programming languages later
you can actually you actually write this
in one line of code prediction equals my
you know data matrix times um parameters
right where data matrix is this thing
here and parameters existing here and
this x is a matrix vector multiplication
and if you just do this then this
variable prediction sorry for my bad
handwriting but we just you know
implement this one line of code
assuming you have an appropriate library
to do a major exact modification if you
just do this then prediction becomes
this all by one dimensional vector on
the right that just gives you all the
predicted prices and the alternative you
know to doing this as a matrix vector
multiplication would be to write
something like you know for I equals 1
to 4 right and you have say a thousand
houses it before I equals 1 mm whatever
open you have to write a prediction you
know of I equals and then do a bunch
more work over there and it turns out
that when you have a large number of
houses if you were trying to predict the
prices of not just for that maybe of a
thousand houses then it turns out that
when you implement this in the computer
implementing it like this in any of
various languages this is not true only
for all to it but for super sauce Java
Python other high level other languages
as well it turns out that by writing
code in this style on the left it allows
you to not only simplify the code
because now you're just writing one line
of code rather than the formula bunch of
things inside but for subtle reasons
that we'll see later it turns out to be
much more computationally efficient to
make predictions on all of the prices of
all of your houses doing it the way on
the left then the way on the right then
if you were to run your own for loop and
I'll say more about this later when we
talk about vectorization but so by post
a prediction this way you get not only a
simple piece of code but a more
efficient one so that's it for matrix
vector multiplication and we'll make
good use of these sorts of operations as
we develop the linear regression and
other models further but in the next
video we're going to take this and
generalizes to the case of matrix matrix
multiplication